CISC 3300 SP25 
Homework 2 
1. What do the id and class attributes do? How are they alike and different? 
The HTML id attribute is used to specify a unique id for an HTML element. The HTML class attribute is used to specify a class for an HTML element. Both are used for styling and scripting, but id are unique to that element while class can be shared with multiple elements.
2. What are the parts of a CSS rule? 
A sector and declaration. The declarations are inside the curly brackets and have a property and a value and apply a visual effect, the sectors are used to “find” or select the HTML element you want to style.


3. Explain how CSS rules cascade.
 Based on it you have two or more rules that apply to the same element, you have to take into consideration the precedence. 
Important: this keyword will make it number 1 priority 
Specificity: if there are 2 or more css rules that point to the same element, the selector with the highest specificity will beat the other and its style declaration will be applied to that HTML element
Inheritance: a child element will naturally inherit properties from its parent element.
The last rule is that if there are two or more css rules that point to the same element and they are equally specific the rule applied last with win


4. Contrast display: block, inline, inline-block. 
 Inline: this displays an element as an inline element such as <span>, adding any height and width properties to it will cause it no effect and this is the default. 
Block: this displays and element such as <p>, it starts on a new line and takes us the whole width 
Inline-block: This displays an element in an inline-level block container. The element itself is formatted as an inline element, but you can apply height and width values.


5. What are border, padding, and margin? 
Border: every box has a border even if it's not visible. This divided the other boxes from the ones around it. 
Margin: sit outside the edge of the border, you can set the width of a margin to create a gap between the border and boxes. 
Padding: is the space between the border of a box and any content that is inside within the box. Padding property allows you to specify how much space should appear between the content of an element and its border


6. Let’s improve our fake business webpage from the first homework: 
a. Make a full width header div with a centered row of links and a border. The links can route to ‘#’. Give the header a background color and the links a foreground color. 
b. Create a logo with a fancy font from google fonts and some color. And set a google font for the text of the rest of your webpage. 
c. Every item on the page should have adequate margin/padding. 
d. Try to think about the usability principles we have discussed in class; try to make the design choices increase the usability of the page.